---
title: John Ternus will be CEO of Apple when Tim Cook steps down this fall
date: '2026-04-20'
excerpt: >-
  Apple CEO Tim Cook is officially stepping down from his role on September 1,
  the company announced today, while current SVP of hardware engineering Jo...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1677442136019-21780ecad995?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
  - Work
category: Work
source: >-
  https://www.engadget.com/computing/tim-cook-will-step-down-as-204959434.html?src=rss
---
<p>Apple CEO Tim Cook is officially stepping down from his role on September 1, the <a target="_blank" class="link" href="https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20260420318241/en/Tim-Cook-to-become-Apple-Executive-Chairman-John-Ternus-to-become-Apple-CEO" data-i13n="cpos:1;pos:1">company announced today</a>, while current SVP of hardware engineering John Ternus will take over as the new CEO. Cook will transition to a new role as executive chairman of Apple’s Board of Directors. The company says the move was “approved unanimously” by Apple’s Board, and that Cook will work on transitioning his duties over the summer. </p><p>“It has been the greatest privilege of my life to be the CEO of Apple and to have been trusted to lead such an extraordinary company,” Cook said in a statement. “I love Apple with all of my being, and I am so grateful to have had the opportunity to work with a team of such ingenious, innovative, creative, and deeply caring people who have been unwavering in their dedication to enriching the lives of our customers and creating the best products and services in the world.”</p><p>Cook became CEO of Apple in 2011 following the death of co-founder Steve Jobs, and he led the charge for Apple’s post-iPhone and iPad era by launching the AirPods, Apple Watch and Vision Pro. He also pushed the company into being more of a service provider with the launch of Apple TV and Apple Music. While he’s had a strong reputation as a logistics-oriented executive, Cook has been criticized for lacking the product vision that Jobs was known for. </p><p>Ternus, on the other hand, has been focused on product design since joining Apple in 2001. He became VP of hardware engineering in 2013, and later transitioned to a senior executive role in 2021. Ternus was also prominently featured at the <a target="_blank" class="link" href="https://www.engadget.com/computing/laptops/macbook-neo-review-apple-puts-every-600-windows-pc-to-shame-130000878.html" data-i13n="cpos:2;pos:1">MacBook Neo</a> launch a few months ago, where Apple announced a low-cost yet high-quality notebook that encapsulates its unique place in the PC industry. </p><p>“I am profoundly grateful for this opportunity to carry Apple’s mission forward,” Ternus said in a statement. “Having spent almost my entire career at Apple, I have been lucky to have worked under Steve Jobs and to have had Tim Cook as my mentor. It has been a privilege to help shape the products and experiences that have changed so much of how we interact with the world and with one another.”</p><p>Cook published a <a target="_blank" class="link rapid-with-clickid" href="https://shopping.yahoo.com/rdlw?merchantId=4130e2f0-a14f-4c5e-bdab-cd52ac7d8e79&amp;siteId=us-engadget&amp;pageId=1p-autolink&amp;contentUuid=2508675b-7207-46fc-aee1-e614e3b2c238&amp;featureId=text-link&amp;merchantName=Apple&amp;linkText=community+letter&amp;custData=eyJzb3VyY2VOYW1lIjoiV2ViLURlc2t0b3AtVmVyaXpvbiIsImxhbmRpbmdVcmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5hcHBsZS5jb20vY29tbXVuaXR5LWxldHRlci1mcm9tLXRpbS8iLCJjb250ZW50VXVpZCI6IjI1MDg2NzViLTcyMDctNDZmYy1hZWUxLWU2MTRlM2IyYzIzOCIsIm9yaWdpbmFsVXJsIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuYXBwbGUuY29tL2NvbW11bml0eS1sZXR0ZXItZnJvbS10aW0vIn0&amp;signature=AQAAAd1JdzC9sxl3ehET7RzNmwHqLb7C9m8fxu84l2y8PrgS&amp;gcReferrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.apple.com%2Fcommunity-letter-from-tim%2F" data-i13n="elm:affiliate_link;sellerN:Apple;elmt:;cpos:3;pos:1" data-original-link="https://www.apple.com/community-letter-from-tim/">community letter</a> timed for the announcement, which we’ve included below:</p><p></p><blockquote><p>To the Apple community:<br><br>For the past 15 years I’ve started just about every morning the same way. I open my email and I read notes I received the day before from Apple’s users all over the world.</p><p>You share little pieces of your lives with me and tell me things you want me to know about how Apple has touched you. About the moment your mom was saved by her Apple Watch. About the perfect selfie you captured at the summit of a mountain that seemed impossible to climb. You thank me for the ways Mac has changed what you can do at work and sometimes give me a hard time because something you care about isn’t working like it should.</p><p>In every one of those emails I feel the beating heart of our shared humanity. I feel a sense of deepening obligation to work harder and push further. But most of all, I feel a gratitude that I cannot put into words, that I somehow got to be the person on the other end of those emails, the leader of a company that ignites imaginations and enriches lives in such profound ways it defies description. What an honor and a privilege it has been.</p><p>Today we announced that I’m taking the next step in my journey at Apple. Over the coming months I will be transitioning into a new role, leaving the CEO job behind in September and becoming Apple’s executive chairman. A new person will be stepping into what I know in my heart is the best job in the world. That leader is John Ternus, a brilliant engineer and thinker who has spent the past 25 years building the Apple products our users love so much, obsessed with every detail, focused on every possible way we can make something better, bolder, more beautiful, and more meaningful. He is the perfect person for the job.</p><p>John cares so much about who we are at Apple, what we do at Apple, who we reach at Apple, and he has the heart and character to lead with extraordinary integrity. I am so proud to call him Apple’s next CEO. This company will reach such incredible heights under his leadership, and you will feel his impact in every bit of delight and discovery that grows out of the products and services to come. I can’t wait for you to get to know him like I do.</p><p>This is not goodbye. But at this moment of transition, I wanted to take the opportunity to say thank you. Not on behalf of the company, this time, though there is a wellspring of gratitude for you that overflows inside our walls. But simply on behalf of me. Tim. A person who grew up in a rural place in a different time and, for these magical moments, got to be the CEO of the greatest company in the world. Thank you for the confidence and kindness you’ve shown me. Thank you for saying hi to me on the street and in our stores. Thank you for cheering alongside me when we unveiled a new product or service. Thank you, most of all, for believing in me to lead the company that has always put you at the center of our work. Every day we get up and think about what we can do to make your life a little bit better. And every day, you’ve made mine the best I could have asked for.</p><p>Thank you.</p></blockquote><p></p>This article originally appeared on Engadget at https://www.engadget.com/computing/tim-cook-will-step-down-as-204959434.html?src=rss
