---
title: >-
  Kathleen Kennedy steps down as Lucasfilm president, marking a new era for the
  Star Wars franchise
date: '2026-01-16'
excerpt: >-
  Kathleen Kennedy is stepping down as president of Lucasfilm. Although she will
  continue as a producer for several Star Wars projects, including upcomi...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1559526324-4b87b5e36e44?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
category: Finance
source: >-
  https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/kathleen-kennedy-steps-down-as-lucasfilm-president-marking-a-new-era-for-the-star-wars-franchise-003407687.html?src=rss
---
<p>Kathleen Kennedy is <a target="_blank" class="link" href="https://www.starwars.com/news/lucasfilm-leadership" data-i13n="cpos:1;pos:1">stepping down</a> as president of Lucasfilm. Although she will continue as a producer for several Star Wars projects, including upcoming movie <a target="_blank" class="link" href="https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/tv-movies/disneys-mandalorian-and-grogu-trailer-shows-the-fall-of-a-lumbering-giant-141515618.html" data-i13n="cpos:2;pos:1"><em>The Mandalorian and Grogu</em></a>, the company will now be helmed by a duo in Dave Filoni and Lynwen Brennan. It&#39;s a big changing of the guard for Star Wars fans, and marks the start of a fresh chapter for the sci-fi universe.&nbsp;</p><p>Before taking over at Lucasfilm, Kennedy had seen great success as a producer with a couple little films you may have heard of: <em>E.T.</em> and <em>Jurassic Park</em>. She became Lucasfilm&#39;s president in 2012 when the company was acquired by Disney. At that point, it had been several years since the last Star Wars movie; <em>Revenge of the Sith</em> closed out the generally panned prequel trilogy in 2005. Fans&#39; best option for Star Wars content was <em>The Clone Wars</em>, a standalone film and animated series which were well-regarded but primarily popular among the hardcore devotees rather than reaching the widespread cultural relevance of the prior feature films.&nbsp;</p><p>During Kennedy&#39;s tenure, Star Wars returned to the big screen with <em>The Force Awakens</em> in 2015. Although that J.J. Abrams-led trilogy was also a roller coaster for many fans, it marked a renaissance for the franchise. Lucasfilm embarked on two standalone movies in <em>Rogue One</em> and <em>Solo</em>, which generated yet more buzz and more money for the company. Star Wars got the full cinematic universe treatment, with critically acclaimed live-action television projects and several new video games. The world fell in love with Baby Yoda. Ewan McGregor finally got to don his Obi-Wan Kenobi robe in a better vehicle. The franchise was back in the mainstream, with the budgets and expectations of media behemoth Disney at its back.&nbsp;No matter your feelings on the current state of Star Wars, it&#39;s an impressive accomplishment by Kennedy and a big legacy that she leaves behind at Lucasfilm.</p><p>So now that Lucasfilm has arguably ended this phase on a high note, what&#39;s next? Dave Filoni moving into the top spot isn&#39;t much of a surprise. He&#39;s long been seen by fans and seemingly by the company as George Lucas&#39; spiritual successor. Filoni was also the showrunner on <em>The Clone Wars</em> back in the day and has been involved in some capacity with many of the recent TV series, most notably <em>The Mandalorian</em> and <em>Ahsoka</em>. All that history means his new role of President and Chief Creative Officer is pretty expected, and the Star Wars faithful likely feel that they are in good hands.&nbsp;</p><p>As the title implies, Filoni will be responsible for the artistic side of the operation, while as Co-President, Lynwen Brennan will be in charge of the business side. Brennan may be a less familiar name, but her tenure with Lucas&#39; businesses dates back to 1999 when she joined the legendary effects studio Industrial Light &amp; Magic. Dividing the art and the commerce can yield good results if the two are able to find a good synergy. Star Wars has proven that it&#39;s a moneymaker even when the films and series aren&#39;t particularly well-received, but here&#39;s hoping that Filoni and Brennan will each be able to maintain high standards for Lucasfilm and the Star Wars fandom.</p>This article originally appeared on Engadget at https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/kathleen-kennedy-steps-down-as-lucasfilm-president-marking-a-new-era-for-the-star-wars-franchise-003407687.html?src=rss
