---
title: LinkedIn CEO says AI writing assistant is not as popular as expected
date: '2025-06-22'
excerpt: >-
  In Brief Posted: 7:06 AM PDT · June 22, 2025 Image Credits:Artur
  Widak/NurPhoto / Getty Images Anthony Ha LinkedIn CEO says AI writing
  assistant is no...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1677442136019-21780ecad995?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
  - Work
category: Work
source: >-
  https://techcrunch.com/2025/06/22/linkedin-ceo-says-ai-writing-assistant-is-not-as-popular-as-expected/
---
In Brief

				
				
					Posted:
					

					7:06 AM PDT · June 22, 2025
				
				
			
			

			Image Credits:Artur Widak/NurPhoto / Getty Images

			

	
		
							
											
									
					
		
							Anthony Ha
					
	



			LinkedIn CEO says AI writing assistant is not as popular as expected

			
While LinkedIn users seem to have embraced AI, there’s one area that’s seen less uptake than expected, according to CEO Ryan Roslansky: AI-generated suggestions for polishing your LinkedIn posts.

“It’s not as popular as I thought it would be, quite frankly,” Roslansky told Bloomberg. When asked why, he argued that the “barrier is much higher” to posting on LinkedIn, because “this is your resume online.” Plus, users can face real backlash if they post something that’s too obviously generated by AI.


	
	




	
	



“If you’re getting called out on X or TikTok, that’s one thing,” he added. “But when you’re getting called out on LinkedIn, it really impacts your ability to create economic opportunity for yourself.”

At the same time, Roslansky noted that the professional social network has seen a 6x increase in jobs requiring AI-related skills over the past year, while the number of users adding AI skills to their profiles is up 20x.

And he said he uses AI himself when he talks to his boss, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella:  “Every time, before I send him an email, I hit the Copilot button to make sure that I sound Satya-smart.”


			
	Topics
	
		AI, LinkedIn, Microsoft, Ryan Roslansky, Social	


		
		

		
		
			



	
	






	
					
				
							July 15, 2025
										Boston, MA
					
					From seed to Series C and beyond—founders and VCs of all stages are heading to Boston. Be part of the conversation. Save $200+ now and tap into powerful takeaways, peer insights, and game-changing connections.
							
				
					Register Now									
			
			



		
		
	
	

	
	

		
	
		
			Newsletters
							
					See More
				
					
		Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news
	
	
		
			
	
