---
title: 'Midjourney launches its first AI video generation model, V1'
date: '2025-06-18'
excerpt: >-
  Midjourney, one of the most popular AI image generation startups, announced on
  Wednesday the launch of its much-anticipated AI video generation model,...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1677442136019-21780ecad995?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
  - Openai
category: General AI
source: >-
  https://techcrunch.com/2025/06/18/midjourney-launches-its-first-ai-video-generation-model-v1/
---
Midjourney, one of the most popular AI image generation startups, announced on Wednesday the launch of its much-anticipated AI video generation model, V1.

V1 is an image-to-video model, in which users can upload an image — or take an image generated by one of Midjourney’s other models — and V1 will produce a set of four five-second videos based on it. Much like Midjourney’s image models, V1 is only available through Discord, and it’s only available on the web at launch.


Introducing our V1 Video Model. It's fun, easy, and beautiful. Available at 10$/month, it's the first video model for *everyone* and it's available now. pic.twitter.com/iBm0KAN8uy— Midjourney (@midjourney) June 18, 2025


The launch of V1 puts Midjourney in competition with AI video generation models from other companies, such as OpenAI’s Sora, Runway’s Gen 4, Adobe’s Firefly, and Google’s Veo 3. While many companies are focused on developing controllable AI video models for use in commercial settings, Midjourney has always stood out for its distinctive AI image models that cater to creative types. 


	
	




	
	



The company says it has larger goals for its AI video models than generating B-roll for Hollywood films or commercials for the ad industry. In a blog post, Midjourney CEO David Holz says its AI video model is the company’s next step toward its ultimate destination, creating AI models “capable of real-time open-world simulations.”

After AI video models, Midjourney says it plans to develop AI models for producing 3D renderings, as well as real-time AI models.

The launch of Midjourney’s V1 model comes just a week after the startup was sued by two of Hollywood’s most notorious film studios: Disney and Universal. The suit alleges that images created by Midjourney’s AI image models depict the studio’s copyrighted characters, like Homer Simpson and Darth Vader.

Hollywood studios have struggled to confront the rising popularity of AI image and video-generating models, such as the ones Midjo
