---
title: >-
  Tunic publisher claims TikTok ran 'racist, sexist' AI ads for one of its games
  without its knowledge
date: '2026-02-20'
excerpt: >-
  Indie publisher and developer Finji has accused TikTok of using generative AI
  to alter the ads for its games on the platform without its knowledge or...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1549317661-bd32c8ce0db2?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
category: Transportation
source: >-
  https://www.engadget.com/gaming/tunic-publisher-claims-tiktok-ran-racist-sexist-ai-ads-for-one-of-its-games-without-its-knowledge-185303395.html?src=rss
---
<p>Indie publisher and developer Finji has accused TikTok of using generative AI to alter the ads for its games on the platform without its knowledge or permission. Finji, which published indie darlings like <a data-i13n="cpos:1;pos:1" href="https://www.engadget.com/2018-01-16-night-in-the-woods-nintendo-switch-february-1st.html"><em><ins>Night in the Woods</ins></em></a><em>&nbsp;</em>and <a data-i13n="cpos:2;pos:1" href="https://www.engadget.com/2018-06-11-tunic-first-look-xbox-zelda-e3-2018.html"><em><ins>Tunic</ins></em></a><em>, </em>said it only became aware of the seemingly modified ads after being alerted to them by followers of its official TikTok account.</p>
<p>As reported by <a data-i13n="cpos:3;pos:1" href="https://www.ign.com/articles/tunic-night-in-the-woods-publisher-says-tiktok-is-creating-and-running-racist-genai-ads-for-its-games-without-permission"><em><ins>IGN</ins></em></a>, Finji alleges that one ad that went out on the platform was modified so it displayed a &quot;racist, sexualized&quot; representation of a character from one of its games. While it does advertise on TikTok, it told <em>IGN </em>that it has AI &quot;turned all the way off,&quot; but after CEO and co-founder Rebekah Saltsman received screenshots of the ads in question from fans, she approached TikTok to investigate.</p>
<span id="end-legacy-contents"></span><p>A number of Finji ads have appeared on TikTok, some that include montages of the company’s games, and others that are game-specific like <a data-i13n="cpos:4;pos:1" href="https://www.tiktok.com/@finjico/video/7569673433924095246"><ins>this</ins></a> one for <em>Usual June</em>. According to <em>IGN</em>, the offending AI-modified ads (which are still posted as if they’re coming directly from Finji) appeared as slideshows. Some images don’t appear to be that different from the source, but one possibly AI-generated example seen by IGN depicts <em>Usual June</em>’s titular protagonist with &quot;a bikini bottom, impossibly large hips and thighs, and boots that rise up over her knees.&quot; Needless to say (and obvious from the official screenshot used as the lead image for this article), this is not how the character appears in the game.</p>
<p>As for TikTok’s response, IGN printed a number of the platform’s replies to Finji’s complaints, in which it initially said, in part, that it could find no evidence that &quot;AI-generated assets or slideshow formats are being used.&quot; This was despite Finji sending the customer support page a screenshot of the clearly edited image mentioned above. In a subsequent exchange, TikTok appeared to acknowledge the evidence and assured the publisher it was &quot;no longer disputing whether this occurred.&quot; It added that it has escalated the issue internally and was investigating it thoroughly.</p>
<p>TikTok does have a &quot;Smart Creative&quot; option on its ad platform, which essentially uses generative AI to modify user-created ads so that multiple versions are pushed out, with the ones its audience responds more positively to used more often. Another option is the <a data-i13n="cpos:5;pos:1" href="https://ads.tiktok.com/help/article/about-automate-creative?lang=en"><ins>“Automate Creative”</ins></a> features, which use AI to automatically optimize things like music, audio effects and general visual &quot;quality&quot; to &quot;enhance the user’s viewing experience.&quot; Saltsman showed <em>IGN </em>evidence that Finji has both of these options turned off, which was also confirmed by a TikTok agent for the ad in question.</p>
<p>After a number of increasingly frustrated exchanges in which TikTok eventually admitted to Saltsman that the ad &quot;raises significant issues, including the unauthorized use of AI, the sexualization and misrepresentation of your characters, and the resulting commercial and reputational harm to your studio,&quot; the Finji co-founder was offered something of an explanation.</p>
<p>TikTok said that Finji’s campaign used a &quot;catalog ads format&quot; designed to &quot;demonstrate the performance benefits of combining carousel and video assets in Sales campaigns.&quot; It said that this &quot;initiative&quot; helped advertisers &quot;achieve better results with less effort,&quot; but did not address the harmful content directly. Finji seemingly also opted into this ad format without knowing it had done so. TikTok declined to comment on the matter when approached by <em>IGN</em>.</p>
<p>Saltsman was told the issue could not be escalated any higher, with communication not resolved at the time of <em>IGN </em>publishing its report. In a statement to the outlet, Saltsman said she was &quot;a bit shocked by TikTok’s complete lack of appropriate response to the mess<em>&nbsp;</em>they made.&quot; She went on to say that she expected both an apology and clear reassurance of how a similar issue would not reoccur, but was &quot;obviously not holding my breath for any of the above.&quot;</p>This article originally appeared on Engadget at https://www.engadget.com/gaming/tunic-publisher-claims-tiktok-ran-racist-sexist-ai-ads-for-one-of-its-games-without-its-knowledge-185303395.html?src=rss
