---
title: Verizon's latest ad defies CRT physics
date: '2025-10-23'
excerpt: >-
  I know there are bigger fish to fry, but I wouldn&#39;t be doing my job if I
  didn&#39;t draw your attention to this travesty of a commercial Verizon j...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1677442136019-21780ecad995?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
  - Work
category: Work
source: >-
  https://www.engadget.com/home/home-theater/verizons-latest-ad-defies-crt-physics-202441012.html?src=rss
---
<p>I know there are bigger fish to fry, but I wouldn&#39;t be doing my job if I didn&#39;t draw your attention to this travesty of a commercial Verizon just released. It&#39;s only 30 seconds long but may go down as one of the worst ads I&#39;ve ever seen.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>What’s so offensive, you ask? Well, the carrier (and one-time parent company of Engadget) wants to promote the fact that it will give AT&amp;T and T-Mobile customers a better deal on their wireless plan if they bring in their monthly cellular bill. That&#39;s all well and good, but we need to talk about the cathode-ray tube TV that&#39;s at the center of the commercial.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><div><div><iframe allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div><p>The ad opens with a woman walking into a Best Buy-coded store and handing over a 27-inch CRT TV to a nearby sales associate. &quot;Hi, I got this old thing and the bill from the store where I got it,&quot; she tells the young salesperson while casually tossing the TV to him. &quot;Figured you could beat it with a better deal on one of these big boys,&quot; she adds, pointing to, let’s be honest, an <a>objectively worse flat panel TV</a>.&nbsp;</p><p>Now, I need to know: did anyone who worked on this commercial try to lift a CRT? Look, I know it&#39;s 2025, and even the newest sets are now close to two decades old, but even if you&#39;ve never seen one in real-life, surely you&#39;ve heard how heavy they are? If I had to guess, the TV we see in the commercial, which looks like an <a>RCA 27R411T</a>, weighs close to 75 pounds. There&#39;s a reason so many Facebook Marketplace listings recommend you bring a friend with you when you come pick up the CRT they&#39;re selling; most people can&#39;t lift even a mid-sized set on their own.&nbsp; </p><p>I hate to think how Verizon made this commercial. CRTs are a dead technology. No company is making new consumer sets anymore, and any working CRTs left out in the world are on borrowed time. If the company gutted a working set to make this commercial, it means there’s one less CRT in an ever-dwindling pool. Someone could have enjoyed that TV and stopped it from <a>entering a landfill</a>. </p><p>But as for the rest of the commercial, it’s equally as bad. No big box retailer is accepting trade-ins for a CRT TV, and even if they were, trying to get rid of one that way would be a rookie move. CRTs, both TVs and monitors, are highly sought after by retro gamers. Even a relatively unknown set like the 27R411T can catch a few hundred dollars, especially if it&#39;s in pristine condition. In fact, a quick <a>eBay search</a> returns a seller looking for $350 for their 27R411T unit.&nbsp;</p><p>But you know what our dear Verizon booster does? She just walks away without the CRT after the salesperson tells her the shop won&#39;t give her a better deal on a new TV. &quot;Guess you&#39;re not as cool as Verizon&quot; she says, uttering a thing no one in the history has ever said. Sorry, joke&#39;s on you, lady. Not only is that TV impossibly light, it&#39;s way cooler than anything Verizon has ever done.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p></p>This article originally appeared on Engadget at https://www.engadget.com/home/home-theater/verizons-latest-ad-defies-crt-physics-202441012.html?src=rss
