---
title: YouTube is muting push notifications from channels you don't watch
date: '2026-04-21'
excerpt: >-
  YouTube notifications can get messy fast, particularly if you’re subscribed to
  a lot of different channels. To address that, today the company will be...
coverImage: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1677442136019-21780ecad995?w=400&h=200&fit=crop&auto=format
author: AIVibe
tags:
  - Ai
category: General AI
source: >-
  https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/youtube/youtube-is-muting-push-notifications-from-channels-you-dont-watch-205119228.html?src=rss
---
<p></p><p>YouTube notifications can get messy fast, particularly if you’re subscribed to a lot of different channels. To address that, today the company will begin muting push notifications from creators that you haven’t engaged with in the last month.</p><p>The change to YouTube notifications began as a <a target="_blank" class="link" href="https://support.google.com/youtube/thread/18138167?hl=en&amp;msgid=409337144" data-i13n="cpos:1;pos:1">small trial the company tested out</a> earlier this year. The idea behind it is that if a viewer continually receives notifications about content they don&#39;t engage with, this may eventually cause the user to disable YouTube notifications altogether. Now obviously, this is bad for YouTube. Turning off notifications means people will use the platform less, thereby resulting in lower revenue. However, it&#39;s also bad for content creators, especially the ones you do like, who will have one fewer avenue to keep you updated about new and upcoming videos.&nbsp;</p><div><div style="max-width:56vh;"><div style="left:0;width:100%;height:0;position:relative;padding-bottom:177.7778%;"><iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Vqj6XtwcNyg?rel=0" style="top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;position:absolute;border:0;" allowfullscreen scrolling="no" data-embed-domain="youtube.com" data-provider-name="videoIframe"></iframe></div></div></div><p>So starting today, for channels that you have subscribed to and have notifications set to &quot;all,&quot; YouTube will no longer send out push notifications to mobile devices from creators that you haven&#39;t interacted with for one month. That said, these notifications will continue to be available inside the YouTube app in your inbox (the little bell icon in the top right).&nbsp;</p><p>Notably, for those who are clicking on notifications and watching related videos, nothing will change. Additionally, based on info from the test earlier this year, YouTube said &quot;channels that upload infrequently will not have their notifications affected.&quot; This is a good thing, especially for creators who post long-form content that takes extra time to make, as people probably don&#39;t want notifications to go away in case they happen to miss a once-a-month upload.&nbsp;</p><p>The one thing that&#39;s unclear is if you start watching a channel again that you have not interacted with in a while, is if YouTube will automatically restart related push notifications. However, as a way to prevent too many alerts from clogging up your phone, YouTube&#39;s new protocol seems like a good way to cut down on the clutter.</p><p></p>This article originally appeared on Engadget at https://www.engadget.com/entertainment/youtube/youtube-is-muting-push-notifications-from-channels-you-dont-watch-205119228.html?src=rss
